DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# MealMind Vercel Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

1. **Vercel Account**: Sign up at [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
2. **Database**: Set up a PostgreSQL database (recommended: Neon, Supabase, or Railway)
3. **Environment Variables**: Prepare your environment variables

## Required Environment Variables

You'll need to configure these environment variables in your Vercel project:

### Database
- `DATABASE_URL`: Your PostgreSQL connection string

### AI Services (Optional - for recipe generation)
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID`: Azure tenant ID (if using Azure OpenAI)
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`: Azure client ID
- `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Azure client secret
- `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`: Azure OpenAI endpoint
- `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT`: Azure OpenAI deployment name
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Google Gemini API key (alternative to Azure OpenAI)

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Prepare Your Repository

Make sure your code is pushed to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket).

### 2. Connect to Vercel

1. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) and sign in
2. Click "New Project"
3. Import your Git repository
4. Select the repository containing your MealMind project

### 3. Configure Build Settings

Vercel should automatically detect your project structure, but verify these settings:

- **Framework Preset**: Other
- **Build Command**: `npm run vercel-build`
- **Output Directory**: `dist/public`
- **Install Command**: `npm install`

### 4. Set Environment Variables

In your Vercel project dashboard:

1. Go to Settings → Environment Variables
2. Add each required environment variable:
   - `DATABASE_URL` (required)
   - `AZURE_TENANT_ID` (optional)
   - `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` (optional)
   - `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` (optional)
   - `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT` (optional)
   - `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT` (optional)
   - `GEMINI_API_KEY` (optional)

### 5. Deploy

1. Click "Deploy"
2. Wait for the build to complete
3. Your app will be available at the provided Vercel URL

## Database Setup

### Option 1: Neon (Recommended)
1. Go to [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. Create a new project
3. Copy the connection string
4. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

### Option 2: Supabase
1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Create a new project
3. Go to Settings → Database
4. Copy the connection string
5. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

### Option 3: Railway
1. Go to [railway.app](https://railway.app)
2. Create a new PostgreSQL service
3. Copy the connection string
4. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

## Post-Deployment

### 1. Run Database Migrations

After deployment, you may need to run database migrations:

```bash
# Locally with your production DATABASE_URL
npm run db:push
```

### 2. Test Your Application

1. Visit your Vercel URL
2. Test the main functionality:
   - Adding ingredients
   - Generating recipes
   - Managing inventory

### 3. Custom Domain (Optional)

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to Settings → Domains
3. Add your custom domain
4. Configure DNS settings as instructed

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Build Failures**: Check that all dependencies are in `package.json`
2. **Database Connection**: Verify `DATABASE_URL` is correct and accessible
3. **Environment Variables**: Ensure all required variables are set in Vercel
4. **API Routes**: Check that `/api/*` routes are working correctly

### Debugging

1. Check Vercel build logs for errors
2. Verify environment variables are set correctly
3. Test database connectivity
4. Check browser console for client-side errors

## File Structure for Vercel

Your project should have this structure for Vercel deployment:

```
MealMind/
├── client/           # React frontend
├── server/           # Express backend
├── shared/           # Shared schemas
├── vercel.json       # Vercel configuration
├── .vercelignore     # Files to ignore
├── package.json      # Main package.json
└── vite.config.ts    # Vite configuration
```

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the Vercel documentation
2. Review build logs in your Vercel dashboard
3. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
4. Test your application locally with production environment variables

Commit message:

Fix npm authentication for Vercel deployment

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# MealMind Vercel Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

1. **Vercel Account**: Sign up at [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
2. **Database**: Set up a PostgreSQL database (recommended: Neon, Supabase, or Railway)
3. **Environment Variables**: Prepare your environment variables

## Required Environment Variables

You'll need to configure these environment variables in your Vercel project:

### Database
- `DATABASE_URL`: Your PostgreSQL connection string

### AI Services (Optional - for recipe generation)
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID`: Azure tenant ID (if using Azure OpenAI)
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`: Azure client ID
- `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Azure client secret
- `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`: Azure OpenAI endpoint
- `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT`: Azure OpenAI deployment name
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Google Gemini API key (alternative to Azure OpenAI)

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Prepare Your Repository

Make sure your code is pushed to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket).

### 2. Connect to Vercel

1. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) and sign in
2. Click "New Project"
3. Import your Git repository
4. Select the repository containing your MealMind project

### 3. Configure Build Settings

Vercel should automatically detect your project structure, but verify these settings:

- **Framework Preset**: Other
- **Build Command**: `npm run vercel-build`
- **Output Directory**: `dist/public`
- **Install Command**: `npm install`

### 4. Set Environment Variables

In your Vercel project dashboard:

1. Go to Settings → Environment Variables
2. Add each required environment variable:
   - `DATABASE_URL` (required)
   - `AZURE_TENANT_ID` (optional)
   - `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` (optional)
   - `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` (optional)
   - `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT` (optional)
   - `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT` (optional)
   - `GEMINI_API_KEY` (optional)

### 5. Deploy

1. Click "Deploy"
2. Wait for the build to complete
3. Your app will be available at the provided Vercel URL

## Database Setup

### Option 1: Neon (Recommended)
1. Go to [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. Create a new project
3. Copy the connection string
4. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

### Option 2: Supabase
1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Create a new project
3. Go to Settings → Database
4. Copy the connection string
5. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

### Option 3: Railway
1. Go to [railway.app](https://railway.app)
2. Create a new PostgreSQL service
3. Copy the connection string
4. Set as `DATABASE_URL` in Vercel

## Post-Deployment

### 1. Run Database Migrations

After deployment, you may need to run database migrations:

```bash
# Locally with your production DATABASE_URL
npm run db:push
```

### 2. Test Your Application

1. Visit your Vercel URL
2. Test the main functionality:
   - Adding ingredients
   - Generating recipes
   - Managing inventory

### 3. Custom Domain (Optional)

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to Settings → Domains
3. Add your custom domain
4. Configure DNS settings as instructed

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Build Failures**: Check that all dependencies are in `package.json`
2. **Database Connection**: Verify `DATABASE_URL` is correct and accessible
3. **Environment Variables**: Ensure all required variables are set in Vercel
4. **API Routes**: Check that `/api/*` routes are working correctly
5. **npm Warnings**: Warnings about deprecated packages are normal and won't break the build

### Debugging

1. Check Vercel build logs for errors
2. Verify environment variables are set correctly
3. Test database connectivity
4. Check browser console for client-side errors

### Build Process

The build process includes:
1. `npm install` - Installs dependencies (warnings about deprecated packages are normal)
2. `npm run vercel-build` - Builds the React frontend with Vite
3. Server deployment - Express server is deployed as a serverless function

### Environment Variables Required

Make sure these are set in your Vercel project settings:
- `DATABASE_URL` (required) - PostgreSQL connection string
- `NODE_ENV` (optional) - Set to "production" for production builds

## File Structure for Vercel

Your project should have this structure for Vercel deployment:

```
MealMind/
├── client/           # React frontend
├── server/           # Express backend
├── shared/           # Shared schemas
├── vercel.json       # Vercel configuration
├── .vercelignore     # Files to ignore
├── package.json      # Main package.json
└── vite.config.ts    # Vite configuration
```

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the Vercel documentation
2. Review build logs in your Vercel dashboard
3. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
4. Test your application locally with production environment variables
